#summary List of queries used in FedBench

= Introduction =

In this document we summarize the queries used in FedBench and group them along the following domains and types:

 * [Queries#Cross_Domain_(CD) Cross Domain Queries (CD)]
 * [Queries#Life_Science_(LS) Life Science Queries (LS)]
 * [Queries#SP2B_(SP) SP2B Queries (SP)]
 * [Queries#Linked_Data_(LD) Linked Data (LD)]

We furthermore indicate the required [Datasets] for the given query set.


= Queries =

The queries are classified into four types. All queries can be downloaded in plain txt files in the download section.

For some of the queries you can find an online demonstration in the Information Workbench. Note that the results might differ slightly when executed in a local benchmark as different versions of the datasets are integrated in the information Workbench. For expected number of results please refer to the evaluation section of our publication.


== Cross domain (CD)==

Queries 1.1 through 1.7 are queries for the cross domain datasets and for convenience the following prefixes are used:

  * *rdf:* <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>
  * *owl:* <http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#>
  * *dbpedia:* <http://dbpedia.org/resource/>
  * *dbpedia-owl:* <http://dbpedia.org/ontology/>
  * *nytimes:* <http://data.nytimes.com/elements/>
  * *foaf:* <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>
  * *purl:* <http://purl.org/dc/terms/>
  * *linkedmdb:* <http://data.linkedmdb.org/resource/movie/>
  * *geonames:* <http://www.geonames.org/ontology#>

Note that all queries can be downloaded in the Download section.

 * *Query 1.1:* Find all information about Barack Obama.

{{{
SELECT ?predicate ?object WHERE {
   { dbpedia:Barack_Obama ?predicate ?object }
  UNION
   { ?subject owl:sameAs dbpedia:Barack_Obama .
     ?subject ?predicate ?object } }
}}}

   [http://iwb.fluidops.com/search/?q=SELECT%20%3Fpredicate%20%3Fobject%20WHERE%20%7B%20%20%20%20%7B%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FBarack_Obama%3E%20%3Fpredicate%20%3Fobject%20%7D%20%20%20UNION%20%20%20%20%7B%20%3Fsubject%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FBarack_Obama%3E%20.%20%20%20%20%20%20%3Fsubject%20%3Fpredicate%20%3Fobject%20%7D%20%7D Try this Query on our Information Workbench]

 * *Query 1.2:* Return Barack Obama's party membership and news pages.

{{{
SELECT ?party ?page WHERE {
   dbpedia:Barack_Obama dbpedia-owl:party ?party .
   ?x nytimes:topicPage ?page .
   ?x owl:sameAs dbpedia:Barack_Obama }
}}}

  [http://iwb.fluidops.com/search/?q=SELECT%20%3Fparty%20%3Fpage%20%20WHERE%20%7B%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FBarack_Obama%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2Fparty%3E%20%3Fparty%20.%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdata.nytimes.com%2Felements%2FtopicPage%3E%20%3Fpage%20.%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FBarack_Obama%3E%20.%20%7D Try this Query on our Information Workbench]

 * *Query 1.3:* Return for all US presidents their party membership and news pages about them.

{{{
SELECT ?pres ?party ?page WHERE {
   ?pres rdf:type dbpedia-owl:President .
   ?pres dbpedia-owl:nationality dbpedia:United_States .
   ?pres dbpedia-owl:party ?party .
   ?x nytimes:topicPage ?page .
   ?x owl:sameAs ?pres }
}}}

  [http://iwb.fluidops.com/search/?q=SELECT%20%3Fpres%20%3Fparty%20%3Fpage%20WHERE%20%7B%20%20%20%20%3Fpres%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F1999%2F02%2F22-rdf-syntax-ns%23type%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2FPresident%3E%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fpres%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2Fnationality%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FUnited_States%3E%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fpres%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2Fparty%3E%20%3Fparty%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdata.nytimes.com%2Felements%2FtopicPage%3E%20%3Fpage%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E%20%3Fpres%20%7D Try this Query on our Information Workbench]

 * *Query 1.4:* Find all news about actors starring in a movie with name Tarzan.

{{{
SELECT ?actor ?news WHERE {
   ?film purl:title 'Tarzan' .
   ?film linkedMDB:actor ?actor .
   ?actor owl:sameAs ?x.
   ?y owl:sameAs ?x .
   ?y nytimes:topicPage ?news }
}}}

  [http://iwb.fluidops.com/search/?q=SELECT+%3Factor+%3Fnews+WHERE+{+%3Ffilm+%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fpurl.org%2Fdc%2Fterms%2Ftitle%3E+%27Tarzan%27+.+%3Ffilm+%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdata.linkedmdb.org%2Fresource%2Fmovie%2Factor%3E+%3Factor+.+%3Factor+%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E+%3Fx.+%3Fy+%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E+%3Fx+.+%3Fy+%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdata.nytimes.com%2Felements%2FtopicPage%3E+%3Fnews+} Try this Query on our Information Workbench]

 * *Query 1.5:* Find the director and the genre of movies directed by Italians.

{{{
SELECT ?film ?director ?genre WHERE {
   ?film dbpedia-owl:director ?director.
   ?director dbpedia-owl:nationality dbpedia:Italy .
   ?x owl:sameAs ?film .
   ?x linkedMDB:genre ?genre }
}}}

  [http://iwb.fluidops.com/search/?q=SELECT%20%3Ffilm%20%3Fdirector%20%3Fgenre%20WHERE%20%7B%20%20%20%20%3Ffilm%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2Fdirector%3E%20%20%3Fdirector.%20%20%20%20%3Fdirector%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fontology%2Fnationality%3E%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdbpedia.org%2Fresource%2FItaly%3E%20%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2002%2F07%2Fowl%23sameAs%3E%20%3Ffilm%20.%20%20%20%20%3Fx%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fdata.linkedmdb.org%2Fresource%2Fmovie%2Fgenre%3E%20%3Fgenre%20%7D%0D%0A Try this Query on our Information Workbench]

 * *Query 1.6:* Find all musical artists based in Germany.

{{{
SELECT ?name ?location ?news WHERE {
   ?artist foaf:name ?name .
   ?artist foaf:based_near ?location .
   ?location geonames:parentFeature ?germany .
   ?germany geonames:name 'Federal Republic of Germany' }
}}}

  No demo available: Online Demo of Information Workbench does not provide geonames data

 * *Query 1.7:* Find all news about locations in the state of California.

{{{
SELECT ?location ?news WHERE {
   ?location geonames:parentFeature ?parent .
   ?parent geonames:name 'California'  .
   ?y owl:sameAs ?location.
   ?y nytimes:topicPage ?news }
}}}

  No demo available: Online Demo of Information Workbench does not provide geonames data




== Life Science (LS) ==

TODO


== SP2B (SP) ==

TODO


== Linked Data (LD) ==

TODO